Firefox Themes
	
	Email to send out:
	
	Thank you to those who have responded to the Firefox Theme survey. We received over 250 responses with some great feedback as to what people like about the current offerings of themes in Firefox as well as what they would like to see improved. We will be keeping the survey open and monitoring it for anybody that has not had a chance to reply yet, but we will not be sending out another summary email. The grouping of the results and more details can be found in our meeting notes [].
	
  Below is a summary of the responses to the survey.
	
	Have you made a lightweight theme before?
	21.8% yes
	
	What do you like about lightweight themes? (48 responses)
	A strong majority (70%) of lightweight theme authors said that they liked how lightweight themes were simple and easy to make. The next group, at 6%, said that they liked how lightweight themes always remain compatible after Firefox updates. 4% of users also liked that they were easy to install with no restart required. A couple people complained that they were too simple and there was too much spam in the themes section of the Add-ons website.
	
	What do you feel was difficult to do or missing from lightweight themes? (47 responses)
	A little less than (42%) half of responses would have liked to do more than just a couple of images with lightweight themes. They would like to apply background images to other parts of the browser, change icons, buttons, and the size-of and location of browser components. The next group of responses (10%) wanted more support for scaling, repetition, animation, and position of background images. Improved documentation (8%) and a lack of a development environment such as an in-browser editor followed (6%). The last two groups of responses wanted the ability for themes to change based on external factors (2%) and separate images for the tabs and tab toolbar (2%).
	
	Have you made a XUL theme before?
	23% yes

	What do you like about XUL themes?
	A strong majority of the respondents agreed firmly with 71.2% that XUL themes are awesome in allowing to touch and customize all the things. The second largest group of respondents seek out XUL themes because they offer more nuts and bolts to tinker with than LightWeight Themes at 11.5%, while the familiarity with the CSS styling language is the main reason to like them for 7.7% of the respondents. Two other notable groups are people who like dark themes, which are apparently only really available as XUL themes, and ones who feel that XUL themes are the easiest thing to bake on this planet, each at 3.9%.
	
	What do you feel was difficult to do or missing from XUL themes?
	The largest amount of responses (29.8%) said that it is a real pain to keep these themes up-to-date and working, with the current fast release cycle of Firefox and the fast pace of development. 28.1% of the respondents rightfully complained that they need to use exotic, undocumented technologies and unknown CSS selectors that they suddenly needed to use in order to create a working XUL theme. Whilst 15.8% claimed there is nothing wrong with XUL themes and we should keep it as-is, another 12.3% is sad about the lack of documentation or any kind of manual to get started. Packaging and delivery of XUL themes is not condidered optimal by 10.5% of respondents and that ultimately very few of these themes can be configured after installation (3.5%).
	
	Why do you install themes?
	About half (47%) of the survey responses want to personalize Firefox. These people said that they want to make Firefox "their own" and have fun showing it off. They enjoy having full control over the user interface through Complete Themes and like the ability to set arbitrary CSS. The next set of responses (16%) asked for a "dark" Firefox, making it easier on the eyes at night. These responses were generally focused on the toolbars and menus of the browser being dark. At 12% of responses was closer integration with the operating system followed closely by 11% of responses saying that they felt the default theme was boring and bland. The last category of responses that received multiple votes was to allow themes to undo recent changes to the user interface, as pan attempt to keep things the same that they've been for the past months/years.
	
	What capabilities would you like themes to have?
	More than half (56%) of the survey responses want full control over the browser UI. They would like to move and hide items, change tab shapes, replace icons, context menus, scrollbars, and more. Following this large group, we had close to 5% of respondents who wanted to simply change basic colors and another group, also close to 5%, that wanted to make it easy for users to make simple tweaks to their browser or installed theme through a built-in menu or tool. Native OS integration, such as using platform-specific icons and scrollbars, followed closely at 3%. Also at 3% of responses were requests from users who require larger icons and improved readability of the browser's user interface for improved accessibility. Not far behind, and ironically next in the order of responses, were requests for a smaller browser UI (2%). These users generally want to maximize the amount of screen space that web pages can use. Both "dark themes" and "themes not breaking with future releases" got 2% of responses. In our last group of responses at or above 1% was themes that could change based on external factors (time of day, season, month, web color, or a very slow animation), restartless and easy to trial, ability to apply multiple themes and create a "mash-up", and to lighten the tab bar.
	
	What parts of Firefox are most important to you to be able to change the appearance of? Why?
	Almost 20% of the respondents can not make a choice between the parts of Firefox and name the app in its entirety. Following closely with 16% is the group of respondents that think the tabs area is the most important part for Themes, while half that number choose toolbars, (toolbar)button icons and the area above the tabs, including the window decoration and window controls. Interestingly, the wish to be able to theme in-content pages is as strong as that of the Awesomebar and respective navigation controls: 6.8%. Changing the colors, palette and fonts used for the UI are the other most notable choices from the community of respondents at 6.4% and 4%, respectively.
	
	Are there theme-related features from other browser or apps that you would like to see incorporated into Firefox?
	An overwhelming majority of the respondents insists that we don't need to change a thing and that other apps don't offer grand alternatives at 36.5%, or simply can't think of any. The Vivaldi browser came up in our preliminary research and also takes a prominent position as device of inspiration for theming features at 11.2%. A dark theme like other apps already offer in their package (5.9%), applying tints of color on SVG icons and background masks (2.9%) on UI elements - most notably the titlebar - and take Opera's about:newtab theming capabilities (2.4%). A notable response from 2.9% of respondents was to introduce a live theme editor in Firefox with sharing capabilities, so that theme creators can take existing themes to tweak to their own liking and (re-)share with others.
	
	Thanks,
	Jared Wein and Mike de Boer on behalf of the Firefox engineering team
	

	* Sep 7, 2016 / Sept 8, 2016
		* Summary of the Firefox Theme Survey responses (249 when we started this summary)
			* Have you made a lightweight theme before?
				* 21.8% yes
			* What did you like about lightweight themes? (48 responses)
				* A strong majority (70%) of lightweight theme authors said that they liked how lightweight themes were simple and easy to make. The next group, at 6%, said that they liked how lightweight themes always remain compatible after Firefox updates. 4% of users also liked that they were easy to install with no restart required. A couple people complained that they were too simple and there was too much spam in the themes section of the Add-ons website.
				* Data:
					* Simple and very easy to make
						* Count: 34 / 70.8%
					* Always remains compatible after Firefox updates
						* Count: 3 / 6.25%
					* Easy to install, no restart required
						* Count: 2 / 4.1%
					* Negative feedback:
						* Too simple
						* Too much spam in the themes section of the Add-ons website
						* Count: 2 / 4.1%
			* What did you feel was difficult to do or missing from lightweight themes? (47 responses)
				* A little less than (42%) half of responses would have liked to do more than just a couple of images with lightweight themes. They would like to apply background images to other parts of the browser, change icons, buttons, and the size-of and location of browser components. The next group of responses (10%) wanted more support for scaling, repetition, animation, and position of background images. Improved documentation (8%) and a lack of a development environment such as an in-browser editor followed (6%). The last two groups of responses wanted the ability for themes to change based on external factors (2%) and separate images for the tabs and tab toolbar (2%).
				* Data:
					* Would have liked to do more than just a couple of images:
						* Ability to change icons, buttons, size-of and location of browser components
						* Felt like the customization that Windows gives, only choice of color and an image
						* Spacing, size, shape, colors, transparency, and images (example: icons, tabs, toolbars, sidebars, dropdown menus/popups)
						* Ability to revert styles like Classic Theme Restorer
						* Would like to apply background images to other parts of the browser (about: pages, library, etc)
						* Count: 20 / 42.5%
					* One large image doesn't work well, lack of support for scaling, repetition, animation, position
						* Count: 5 / 10.6%
					* Lack of documentation
						* Count: 4 / 8.5%
					* Lack of developer environment to create one
						* The need to upload to AMO
						* Would be nice to have in-browser editor
						* Count: 3 / 6.3%
					* Change the theme based on external factors (time of day)
						* Count: 1 / 2.1%
					* Could not provide different images for tabs and window background
						* Count: 1 / 2.1%
			* Have you made a XUL theme before?
				* 23% yes
			* What did you like about XUL themes?
				* Summary: A strong majority of the respondents agreed firmly with 71.2% that XUL themes are awesome in allowing to touch and customize all the things. The second largest group of respondents seek out XUL themes because they offer more nuts and bolts to tinker with than LightWeight Themes at 11.5%, while the familiarity with the CSS styling language is the main reason to like them for 7.7% of the respondents. Two other notable groups are people who like dark themes, which are apparently only really available as XUL themes, and ones who feel that XUL themes are the easiest thing to bake on this planet, each at 3.9%.
				* Responses can be divided in the following 'themes':
					* '<3 Complete Customization'; the feeling of power and joy to be able to customize everything
						* Count: 37/ 71.2%
					* 'I call em Heavyweight'; they are more powerful than LWT for the few extra things I want customized
						* Count: 6/ 11.5%
					* 'Sweet ol' CSS'; loving the simplicity of a language they apparently know well: CSS
						* Count: 4/ 7.7%
					* 'Darkness'; wanting a dark theme is enough reason for people to embrace XUL themes
						* Count: 2/ 3.9%
					* 'Easy?!'; because they're easy to make and use
						* Count: 2/ 3.9%
					* 'Blech'
						* Count: 1/ 1.9%
			* What did you feel was difficult to do or missing from XUL themes?
				* Summary: The largest amount of responses (29.8%) said that it is a real pain to keep these themes up-to-date and working, with the current fast release cycle of Firefox and the fast pace of development. 28.1% of the respondents rightfully complained that they need to use exotic, undocumented technologies and unknown CSS selectors that they suddenly needed to use in order to create a working XUL theme. Whilst 15.8% claimed there is nothing wrong with XUL themes and we should keep it as-is, another 12.3% is sad about the lack of documentation or any kind of manual to get started. Packaging and delivery of XUL themes is not condidered optimal by 10.5% of respondents and that ultimately very few of these themes can be configured after installation (3.5%).
				* Responses can be divided into the following 'themes':
					* '80-year war, but worse'; continuous struggle to keep themes up to date with Firefox UI updates after each release
						* Count: 17/ 29.8%
					* 'I thought rocket science was hard'; exotic, undocumented technologies and unknown CSS selectors that you suddenly _need_ to use
						* Count: 16/ 28.1%
					* 'OMGCHANGE'; nothing is missing, please keep everything the way it currently is
						* Count: 9/ 15.8%
					* 'RTFM'; if only there was a manual to start with.
						* Count: 7/ 12.3%
					* 'UPS figured this one out ages ago!'; packaging is not optimal: as add-ons, they're not compatible with LWT and restartless add-ons
						* Count: 6/ 10.5%
					* 'Good, but no cigar'; the themes often change every aspect of the browser UI, but do not offer configurable settings themselves
						* Count: 2/ 3.5%
			* Why do you install themes? (209 responses)
				* About half (47%) of the survey responses want to personalize Firefox. These people said that they want to make Firefox "their own" and have fun showing it off. They enjoy having full control over the user interface through Complete Themes and like the ability to set arbitrary CSS. The next set of responses (16%) asked for a "dark" Firefox, making it easier on the eyes at night. These responses were generally focused on the toolbars and menus of the browser being dark. At 12% of responses was closer integration with the operating system followed closely by 11% of responses saying that they felt the default theme was boring and bland. The last category of responses that received multiple votes was to allow themes to undo recent changes to the user interface, as pan attempt to keep things the same that they've been for the past months/years.
				* Data:
					* To make Firefox look cool: different colors, personalized, making it "my own" and fun to show off
						* Count: 99 / 47.3%
					* Want a dark Firefox, easier on the eyes
						* Count: 34 / 16.2%
					* Better OS integration, fit the OS theme better
						* Count: 26 / 12.4%
					* The default theme looks boring and bland
						* Count: 23 / 11%
					* Undo recent changes to UI, want to keep things the same that they've been for the past months/years
						* Count: 10 / 4.7%
					* Want the ability to toggle themes without restarting
						* Count: 1 / 0.4%
					* Like animation and other mobile behaviors
						* Count: 1 / 0.4%
					* Like to add whimsy to the browser
						* Count: 1 / 0.4%
					* Differentiate profiles
						* Count: 1 / 0.4%
					* Choosing different search engines and backgrounds across devices
						* Count: 1 / 0.4%
			* What capabilities would you like themes to have? (203 responses)
				* More than half (56%) of the survey responses want full control over the browser UI. They would like to move and hide items, change tab shapes, replace icons, context menus, scrollbars, and more. Following this large group, we had close to 5% of respondents who wanted to simply change basic colors and another group, also close to 5%, that wanted to make it easy for users to make simple tweaks to their browser or installed theme through a built-in menu or tool. Native OS integration, such as using platform-specific icons and scrollbars, followed closely at 3%. Also at 3% of responses were requests from users who require larger icons and improved readability of the browser's user interface for improved accessibility. Not far behind, and ironically next in the order of responses, were requests for a smaller browser UI (2%). These users generally want to maximize the amount of screen space that web pages can use. Both "dark themes" and "themes not breaking with future releases" got 2% of responses. In our last group of responses at or above 1% was themes that could change based on external factors (time of day, season, month, web color, or a very slow animation), restartless and easy to trial, ability to apply multiple themes and create a "mash-up", and to lighten the tab bar.
				* Data:
					* Full control over browser UI: move and hide items, change tab shapes, replace icons
						* Count: 115 / 56.6%
					* Change basic colors
						* Count: 10 / 4.9%
					* Easy for users to make simple tweaks to their browser or the installed theme through a built-in menu or tool
						* Count: 10 / 4.9%
					* Native OS integration
						* Count: 7 / 3.4%
					* Accessibility through larger icons and improved readability
						* Count: 7 / 3.4%
					* Smaller browser UI
						* Count: 6 / 2.9%
					* Dark themes
						* Count: 5 / 2.4%
					* Forward-compatible, not going to break in a future release of Firefox
						* Count: 5 / 2.4%
					* Changing based on external factors (time of day, season, month, web color, slow animation)
						* Count: 4 / 1.9%
					* Restartless and easy to trial
						* Count: 3 / 1.4%
					* Modularity, ability to apply multiple themes and create a "mash-up"
						* Count: 3 / 1.4%
					* Lighten the tab bar
						* Count: 3 / 1.4%
					* Good documentation for theme authors
						* Count: 2 / 0.9%
					* Change how the user interface animates in response to actions
						* Count: 1 / 0.4%
					* Easy to share the changes
						* Count: 1 / 0.4%
			* What parts of Firefox are most important to you to be able to change the appearance of? Why?
				* Summary: Almost 20% of the respondents can not make a choice between the parts of Firefox and name the app in its entirety. Following closely with 16% is the group of respondents that think the tabs area is the most important part for Themes, while half that number choose toolbars, (toolbar)button icons and the area above the tabs, including the window decoration and window controls. Interestingly, the wish to be able to theme in-content pages is as strong as that of the Awesomebar and respective navigation controls: 6.8%. Changing the colors, palette and fonts used for the UI are the other most notable choices from the community of respondents at 6.4% and 4%, respectively.
				* Responses can be divided in the following 'themes':
					* 'All your UI are belong to us'; all bells 'n whistles need be themable.
						* Count: 46/ 18.4%
					* 'Tabs'
						* Count: 40/ 16%
					* 'Icons & Buttons'; ability to make it funky, please
						* Count: 20/ 8%
					* 'Header on top'; including the window decoration
						* Count: 20/ 8%
					* 'Toolbars'
						* Count: 20/ 8%
					* 'In-content pages'
						* Count: 17/ 6.8%
					* 'Determine my own location(bar)'; navigation controls are omnipresent
						* Count: 17/ 6.8%
					* 'Couleur Locale'; change the color palette
						* Count: 16/ 6.4%
					* 'Fonts'; make the font, hum, readable?
						* Count: 11/ 4%
					* 'Other'
						* Count: 43/ 17.2%
			* Are there theme-related features from other browser or apps that you would like to see incorporated into Firefox?
				* Summary: An overwhelming majority of the respondents insists that we don't need to change a thing and that other apps don't offer grand alternatives at 36.5%, or simply can't think of any. The Vivaldi browser came up in our preliminary research and also takes a prominent position as device of inspiration for theming features at 11.2%. A dark theme like other apps already offer in their package (5.9%), applying tints of color on SVG icons and background masks (2.9%) on UI elements - most notably the titlebar - and take Opera's about:newtab theming capabilities (2.4%). A notable response from 2.9% of respondents was to introduce a live theme editor in Firefox with sharing capabilities, so that theme creators can take existing themes to tweak to their own liking and (re-)share with others.
				* Responses can be divided in the following 'themes':
					* 'Status Quo Bueno'; please, don't change a thing.
						* Count: 62/ 36.5%
					* 'Rebrand it Vivaldi'; seems like a neat browser, theme-wise.
						* Count: 19/ 11.2% 
					* 'I'm Dark'; a standard dark theme
						* Count: 10/ 5.9%
					* 'Color tints'; determined by theme or even web-pages.
						* Count: 5/ 2.9%
					* 'Live Theme Editor'; with sharing capabilities
						* Count: 5/ 2.9%
					* 'About: pages in style'; like Opera
						* Count: 4/ 2.4%
					* 'Go Native'; adhere to GTK+ native shizzle, already!
						* Count: 4/ 2.4%
					* Notable others: apply without restart, minimal chrome, rewrite Fx in HTML/ CSS, Brand Thunder Personas, make it like Chrome.
		* Treat the ideas from the following sources as survey responses too:
			* https://www.reddit.com/r/firefox/comments/50twnh/what_if_you_could_reinvent_firefox_theming/
			* https://old.etherpad-mozilla.org/3G0GmhW8A5 (source: mkaply)
			* https://docs.google.com/document/d/10DXgMZuO3_LQrs5IQOxn3ErBheRZvIKc3ZHWVBvpI5E/edit?pref=2&pli=1 (Andrew McKay)
			* https://github.com/nt1m/WebExtensions-Theming-API/issues/1 and https://github.com/nt1m/WebExtensions-Theming-API/blob/master/Proposal.md (ntim)
		* Division of labor:
			* [jaws] process and summarize LWT related responses and first two questions of the last section
			* [mikedeboer] process and summarize XUL theme related responses and last two questions of the last section
			* [both] create proze summary of each survey section
