* What's bad about LWT?
	* Delay in presentation for preview
		* resource loading
	* can only customize an image, not text colors or tabstrip borders etc
	* the theme doesn't have much surface area, some users add toolbars just to increase viewing area

1. Feedback gathering from community
	* Talk to :jorge and :kmag about what are plans are and involve them in it so they don't feel blindsided
	* Idea is to write a small, concise message that invites all to submit ideas and feature requests for the new theme API
		* Recipients: top theme authors (XUL theme & LWT tiers), dev-platform, jetpack?, mozillazine, firefox-dev, some designer type websites/forums (not just targeting people who already make themes but people who maybe would if they either knew how, felt more comfortable, or could be more creative)
			* Ask shorlander!
		* Survey as Google Form
		* Possible wording:

What if you could invent Firefox Themes today? What would it look like, what would its capabilities be?
We would like to provide more capabilities to increase adoption, make it easier and more fun for theme developers to create the type of themes that they have always wanted to make.

Today we have a world of heavy-weight XUL themes and light-weight themes, living at https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/themes/, and we would like to merge these into a single system that's more complete and easier to use than what we already have.

Can you help us out by filling out the following survey?

Have you made a lightweight theme before? Yes/No

What did you like about lightweight themes? _____________

What did you feel was missing from lightweight themes? ____________

Have you made a XUL theme before Yes/No

What did you like about XUL themes? _____________

What did you feel was missing from XUL themes? ______________

How could you imagine themes getting tighter integration with the browser? ______

What parts of Firefox should be theme-able? _______

Are there features from other browsers that you would like to see incorporated in Firefox? _____________


https://docs.google.com/a/mozilla.com/forms/d/1LxoAXmo-b56fBnC5QGx53Kp-rEyVgyy18KsPH5qmOkw/edit?edit_requested=true


