* Immediate steps (2-3 weeks)
	* solicit some early input on high-level use-cases / thing people want to customize appearance wise.
	* our own audit of what current themes (and some addons) do that we should consider for inclusion in this API (or at least inspiration)
	* weekly meeting?
* Next steps
	* firm up this as a design / product plan
		* Consider Github as a base
	* followup on what we're thinking about doing, start prototyping?
		* start to plan out milestones (eg month 1: gather feedback, month 2: have a plan incorporating feedback, month 3: starting implementation)
		* plenty of examples to visualize
		* 


* Problem statement
	* How do we get rid of XUL themes? (not the best wording there, but it is the background motivation, reasons are well known within Mozilla)
	* What is a suitable replacement for XUL themes? Are lightweight themes enough? What is missing from the "upgraded" lightweight themes? How do we position this?
* Goals
	* Community involvement, (potentially don't mention XUL themes, just talk about an upgraded new theme environment) [jaws thinks people may read between the lines]
	* No specific timeline/date driving this particular outcome. Not blocking something else, but it is something around our compatibility/stability goals
	* Determine the scope of what a theme is/ can do
		* What really falls under the mark of a theme? Does Classic Theme Restorer count as a theme?
		* Can themes add or change keyboard shortcuts? 
		* Can themes have their own panels?
		* Theme categories?
	* "Themes" should be safe-by default. No JS? Also simpler for non-programmers to implement. Limits risk of performance problems.
		* but may still want flexability somehow for things like varying by time-of-day?
		* sandboxed scripts?
			* defined per URL (path) in manifest
	* Parity with Chrome's capabilities? Compatibility?
* Non-Goals
	* Provide a complete replacement for XUL themes
	* Be able to completely implement addons like Classic Theme Restorer
* Outline of work
	* Community outreach
		* Can't build this in isolation
		* Can reach out to theme authors, but also would be good to reach out to graphic designers, webdevs, creative folk
			* Where do theme authors hang out? Mozillazine and #themedev would be good starts
	* Firefox changes
		* Implement the new API set
			* determine milestones for initial prototypes, incremental implementation, and eventual ship criteria
				* maybe an initial addon on github to encourage contributors? rust pattern of github rfcs could be good to follow
		* Deprecation mechanism
		* Migration to new API
		* iOS and Android Fx products coordination wrt themes
		* Add-on manager changes
		* Telemetry hooks
	* AMO work
		* AMO coordination
		* upload, packaging, signing, review plan
		* AMO site changes and process not our direct responsibility
		* [via MattN] - since we'd presumably want to allow previewing a theme on AMO without installing (as once can do with LWT today), maybe AMO should host a webapp that assists with creation of a theme. It could then generate an actual theme from the tool and allow you to preview it as you work, seamlessly.
	* Other
		* Sample theme packages
		* API Documentation plan
			* MDN coordination
		* Theme onboarding
			* Draw inspiration of Developer Edition
			* Easter Egg Whimsycorn theme?
			* Bundle 'Our Favorite Themes' with a Fx release
	* Test plan: https://wiki.mozilla.org/QA/Test_Plan_Template

* Existing info:
	* Andy's doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/10DXgMZuO3_LQrs5IQOxn3ErBheRZvIKc3ZHWVBvpI5E/edit
	* ntim's proposal (July '16): https://github.com/nt1m/WebExtensions-Theming-API/blob/master/Proposal.md
	* Chrome themes: https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/themes  / https://chrome.google.com/webstore/category/themes
	* https://github.com/clarkbw/chrome-web-store-scrape (invalid URL or maybe private?)
	* shorlander says there's some older UX work around Personas 2.0? ...but couldn't find it.
	* previous discussions on forums
	* https://github.com/6a68/easythemes
* Involved parties
	* Dolske / de Boer / jaws: Firefox engineering, in-product implementation
	* Andy McKay: WebExtensions / AMO
	* Kev Needham: Addons PM
	* Community: existing theme authors, potential theme authors
