* 27 Sep, 2016; Themeing and Q4 meeting with AndyM and K-9 from WebExtensions team
* Q4 starting, what are we going to do?
* Hawaii demos - if we're doing it
  * We agreed to show a demo for each of the most 'extreme' areas (in order):
    * 1. demo background image on about:home etc
      * or video!
    * 2. WebExtensions API extreme example
      * Whimsy rainbow - psychedelic? (js running that changes colors, disco browser)
        * if we did allow icon swaps we could show the menu icon being replaced by a hamburger
        * lots of cats
    * 3. start of a dark theme
    * 4. In-browser theme editing
    * 5. demo square tabs
  * What could we start on without UX designs
    * square tabs
    * dark theme
    * whimsy rainbow
  * What would need a UX design
    * in-browser theme editing
    * background images on about:home etc
      * the theme could set background and color CSS properties
      * we might want to change some of these in-content pages to show a translucent background behind text
        * can skip this for the demo but will need it for v1
  * Open questions:
    * When do we need to know if we can demo? What's the ultimate deadline?
    * How many demos do we need to make this demo worthy?
      * [jaws] i think if we demo webextension api (not much to show, just say that this is how it is implemented), dark theme, in-browser editing, in-content pages, and dynamic changes then we will have plenty
        *  we could potentially drop dynamic changes from the demo but anything more and it's not enough to demo
    * What does it entail to do demos? [jaws: i think these all depend on how good of a demo we have]
      * [looks amazing] Mark Mayo on the stage showing a few things off or is it us?
      * [looking good] Or having a session?
      * [basic] Or is it having a demo booth in the demo fair?
* mozilla-central or a twig?
  * do our work in a twig so we can have nightlies and commit and push as we see fit
  * mikedeboer and jaws can review each others work
  * treat this as prototype code that will be rewritten when for mozilla-central
    * Rule of thumb: code for waste - we assume we'll throw it away before we start implementing v1
      * However, the good bits, things we learned can be carried over
    * True prototyping; no unit tests need to be written
* Action items
  * [mikedeboer] request twig branch
  * [mikedeboer] sync with dolske/andy/kev on Q4/ Q1 goals & commitments
  * [jaws] we need to create a "theme" permission
    * we can put all the scaffolding and manifests in the chrome.theme namespace (singular, like chrome.extension)
      * javascript api would load the manifest.json and use that the for the static theme
      * extra JS can modify part of the theme (initially loaded through the manifest.json)
  * [k-9] we need to know current / q4 availability. potentially could help implement some of the demo code
