  * [dolske] intro - how it all started
  * [dolske] Go over the product plan - very late draft form
  * [RyanVM] Why are themes not just a subset API just like the other WebExtension APIs?
  * [krupa] What will the compat story be for LWT themes?
    * [mikedeboer] delivered the updated compat mechanism wrt AMO
    * [jorge] will need to think about how ‘new’ themes will be presented on AMO
  * [mixedpuppy] can we remove/ hide items with the new API?
    * [kev] NO. Just like we won’t support re-ordering, adding items.
  * [jaws] explained why SVG icons will the best fit for theme resources
  * [dolske] community outreach will be first item on the agenda for us
  * [canuckistani] two dev theme flavours will ship with Fx 53.
  * [krupa] Will mobile also be supported?
    * [kev] not needed for now, also hard(er) to do due to native UI on Android
  * [k9] why make the distinction of themes vs. regular WebExtensions when there’s not background script defined.
    * [jgruen] distinction primarily for LWT authors
    * [jaws] no real distinction, we can even introduce scriptable themes organically later (v2)
    * [dolske] there seems to be ‘naming things’ issue we need to work out
  * [amckay] How will you tackle regressions introduced when another team changes IDs or selectors in the browser?
    * Unit tests should catch that
    * Thinking about more intensive mozscreenshots use in automation
  * [RyanVM] How will we know that we’re successful with this?
    * [dolske] hopefully get good community feedback that will signal success
    * [dolske] there is some metrics stuff in the engineering plan
  * [amckay] LWTs are supported on Android. How and when will Android come into the picture to implement?
    * [dolske] not off the bat, I’m not an Android developer.
    * [canuckistani] we could support it in the new format on Android too
  * [mikedeboer] went over the engineering plan outline
    * Mentioned review by Mossop, abr is also looking at it
    * No major comments, proceeding to work out into official document
